Mobil Oil Corporation, now known as just Mobil, is a petroleum brand owned and operated by American oil and gas corporation ExxonMobil, formerly known as Exxon, which took its current name after it and Mobil merged in 1999.

A direct descendant of Standard Oil, Mobil was originally known as the Standard Oil Company of New York (shortened to Socony) after Standard Oil was split into 43 different entities in a 1911 Supreme Court decision. Socony merged with Vacuum Oil Company, from which the Mobil name first originated, in 1931 and subsequently renamed itself to "Socony-Vacuum Oil Company".[2] Over time, Mobil became the company's primary identity, which prompted a renaming in 1955 to the "Socony Mobil Oil Company", and then in 1966 to the "Mobil Oil Corporation". Mobil credits itself with being the first company to introduce paying at the pump at its gas stations, the first company to produce jet aviation fuel, as well as the first company to introduce a mobile payment device, today known as Speedpass.[3][1]

In 1998, Mobil announced it was merging with Exxon to form ExxonMobil, reuniting the two largest descendants of Standard Oil. The technicalities of the merger, which was completed on November 30, 1999, showed that Exxon bought Mobil, and Mobil shareholders received a payment of stock in Exxon.[4][5] Mobil continues as a brand name within the combined company, as well as still being a gas station sometimes paired with its own store or On the Run. Mobil's brand name is primarily used to market motor oils, such as Mobil 1. The former Mobil headquarters in Fairfax County, Virginia, was used as ExxonMobil's downstream headquarters[6] until 2015 when ExxonMobil consolidated employees into a new corporate campus in Spring, Texas.[7]

Mobil is ExxonMobil's primary retail gasoline brand in California, Florida, New York, New England, the Great Lakes and the Midwest. The Mobil brand is also used to market gasoline in Australia, Canada (since 2017), Colombia, Egypt, Guam, Japan (until 2019), Malaysia (until 2012), Mexico (starting about first quarter of 2018), New Zealand, Nigeria, Puerto Rico (since 2022) and Guyana (since 2024)

The Mobil brand has a significant market presence in the following metropolitan areas:

New York metropolitan area (including New Jersey since 2014)
Detroit
Chicago
Los Angeles
Minneapolis-St. Paul
Boston
Buffalo
St. Louis
Tampa-St. Petersburg
Miami-Fort Lauderdale
Rochester-Syracuse
Orlando
Milwaukee
Providence
Albany
Hartford
Mobil stores have made an increased presence in Arizona. Growing in size in the Phoenix area from fewer than 5 stations to over 20 in the mid-2010s, but in recent years the number of stations dwindled down back to 5.[10] Mobil previously had a greater presence in the Phoenix area up until April 2009, when ExxonMobil sold 43 area stores to Alimentation Couche-Tard, parent company of Circle K, as part of a sale of the larger On the Run franchise. The stores were rebranded to Circle K, ending Mobil's presence in the Phoenix area until the mid-2010s.[11] At the time, the closest Mobil locations were in Tonopah and Wickenburg, Arizona, both of which were unaffected by the sale as both locations were not On the Run franchises.[12][13]

Also in the 2010s, Mobil stores have made an increased presence in Colorado, particularly in the Denver area, and in areas of northwest Oregon, southwest Washington, and northern California.

Exxon is the primary brand in the rest of the United States, with the highest concentration of Exxon retail outlets located in New Jersey (both Exxon and Mobil brands are used from 2014), Pennsylvania, Texas (Mobil has a sizeable number of stations in Dallas and Houston), Louisiana (mainly New Orleans as well as Baton Rouge) and in the Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern states. Esso is ExxonMobil's primary gasoline brand worldwide. Both the Esso and Mobil brands are used in Canada (since 2017),[14] Colombia, Egypt, and formerly Japan and Malaysia, in which the latter were rebranded as Petron in 2013, and ENEOS for the former in 2019, separately. In Esso stations in Hong Kong and Singapore, the Mobil brand is used on fuel tanks, along with Esso.
